This week on Challenge Accepted, I'm
going to see what it's like to be a
triage officer in an emergency room
during a mass casualty incident.
>> The catch is
>> I'm not a doctor and this entire
hospital, it's not real. We're putting
Michelle [music] through a real life
simulation of a 1-hour mass casualty
incident. This is where real doctors,
nurses learn. We've essentially designed
a liveaction hospital video game. Over
30 actors playing patients, real nurses
[music]
and doctors where Michelle will have to
make splitsecond life or death
decisions.
>> 50 microgram spin.
>> I'm worried about her her close enough
to make a vertical incision.
>> How do you tell someone that someone has
died? We've seen it a million times on
TV, but how close is it to the real
thing?
>> Everyone [music] needs a tag. Everyone
needs a tag. Find out on this week's
episode of Challenge Accepted.
>> Simulation starts in 3 2 1. [music]
>> We want to get to Southern California on
alert this morning after getting hit by
the largest earthquake there in two
decades, sparking more than 160
aftershocks.
>> You can see the damage over 500 people.
[music]
>> All right, there's an earthquake. So,
we're going to get people coming in
left, right, and center. ambulances,
people walking in, crawling in, personal
cars. Do we know how many are coming?
>> We have no [music] idea. So, we have to
be prepared for anything. And that's
where your triage skills are really
going to be essential that you need to
sort all these patients that are coming
in.
>> My role as a triage [music] officer is
to quickly assess the patients arriving
at the emergency department and assign
them a color based on [music] their
injury severity level with the hope of
saving as many lives as possible. So, if
you've seen The Pit, what Michelle is
going to be experiencing today during an
MCI is very similar with one [music] big
distinction. They're actors. They have
lines. Michelle does not know what she's
walking into. She has to rely on this
one day quick education that we
presented to her. So, I don't envy her.
>> Dr. Mike, good to see you again.
>> Good to see you. Yes.
>> I'm Dr. Dr. Mike Varovski, board
certified family medicine physician and
content creator online, especially on
YouTube,
>> one of the most influential medical
educators online, 25 million followers,
the legendary Dr. [music] Mike Marshky.
Dr. Mike is in our video.
So, Dr. Dr. Mike has the incredible
experience of not only being a
healthcare and science [music]
communicator, but also practicing every
single week in the field on real
patients. So, I asked Dr. Mike to come
in and make this simulation as real as
possible. In one day, we're going to try
and simulate 4 years of medical school
to teach Michelle what [music] to do
during the MCI.
>> What you're going to be going through
tomorrow is very similar to what we
train all our emergency department staff
on.
>> Yes, I'm a doctor. I'm [music] a family
medicine physician. So the training I
have doesn't really prepare me fully for
an MCI. It's the experts like Ryan,
[music] like Brett. They're the ones who
have the experience to not just practice
it in real life, but also to teach it on
a very high level to doctors like
myself. So I'll be getting a lot of
value today, too.
>> So we're going to teach you how to sort
patients so that we make sure that we
can do the most good for the greatest
number of patients possible.
>> How do I do that? [laughter]
So there will be four categories I can
sort patients into.
>> Whoa. What the?
>> So we have a simulated patient here. I
can I can do [laughter]
>> Fortunately, there's a tool available.
Uh it's called Start Triage. And uh we
have a flowchart here that will direct
you through [music] the algorithm.
>> I love flowcharts. The start triage
flowchart gives medical professionals a
starting guideline [music] to quickly
assess patients as they are brought into
the emergency room. Starting with the
green, we have the patients that are
going to be your most minimally injured.
>> The first question is, is the patient
able to walk? If yes, they're
immediately [music]
assigned to green. Please walk towards
me.
>> Yes, [music] that's already green.
>> Easy. We're done.
[laughter]
>> Going on to yellow. This is called
delayed. So, the patients that are
definitely going to need care, but they
don't need it right away. Yellow means
the patient cannot walk but might still
have stable vitals and mental status.
[music] Breathing. They are breathing.
Respiratory rate is less than 30. Okay.
Perfusion. When you check for perfusion,
you push down on [music] their nail. And
when you let go, if it goes from white
to normal color in less [music] than 2
seconds, we move on to check their
mental status. Can you wave your hand?
>> Okay. So, yellow, final answer. The red
patients are going to be your most
critical patients, the ones that need
immediate medical care. They have
something that you're detecting as
abnormal in either their breathing rate,
their profusion, or the way that they're
responding to you and following
commands.
>> They're not walking. Heavy breathing. Uh
respiratory rate is
>> 40.
>> High respiratory rate, that's a red.
>> These are the patients that have the
most emergent needs. The black category
are the patients that are either
deceased or unfortunately there's not a
lot that can be done to save them. It
doesn't mean that we ignore them. We're
still going to provide pallet of care,
but unfortunately just there aren't the
resources available like there might be
on a daily basis. He is not walking.
>> Okay. Are they breathing [music]
able to? No.
>> Can we position their airway?
>> So you would go over there, do a head
tilt, chin lift.
>> This does not include CPR.
Unfortunately, again, because we only
have one minute and we don't have the
resources to devote that many people and
that many [music] resources to a single
patient at this point,
>> but I like where you're going. I like I
like that you're thinking about it.
Okay.
>> So, unfortunately, we're going to have
to tag [music] this patient into the
black category.
>> That sucks. I hesitate to put the black
wristband on a patient.
>> It can be extremely challenging and this
algorithm helps you do a calculated
evaluation on them that takes the
emotion out of it. After the [music]
incident, people start to break down.
They have big emotional outbursts
because they were putting away their
emotions for so long. So, [music] expect
after your simulation tomorrow to feel
quite stressed out.
Simulation starts in three,
two, [music]
one.
Let's get started with our first set
here.
My first challenge is to perform triage
on an incoming wave of patients who were
injured in a collapsed apartment
building during the earthquake.
>> Ma'am, are you injured? She's walking,
so it's green. I'm just going to put
this here, but if you're able to walk,
go ahead and head this way.
>> Excuse me.
>> Where do you feel pain, sir?
>> My my knees are all cut up.
>> Okay. Hi. Are you able to walk towards
my bus?
>> Yeah, I'm okay. You could probably help
somebody else while you help me.
>> Okay. Okay. Well, I'm just going to tag
you here. This is going to tell us how
to um treat you in the hospital. Please
head in this way.
>> Pull this thing out.
>> No, do not touch it. So, the first
couple of people I see, they're walking,
[music]
they're breathing, they're talking,
they're responding. I'm great.
>> Are you able to walk towards my voice?
>> There's confusion here. There's
confusion. Airways. Why are
>> we She's breathing. She She has airways.
>> Yeah, she's talking, but there's
confusion.
>> I don't know what to tag her because she
can walk, but her mental status I'm
going to say yellow.
>> You have another patient. You have to be
quickly.
>> Get your staff out. Michelle, your
patient is leaving. Oh my god.
>> But [music] then the cases start to
become trickier and a little more
complex. Like a patient who appears and
they're able to walk, they're able to
talk, but they don't seem all there
mentally. Trying to triage this patient
is sort of like trying to have a
conversation with someone while also
doing a math problem in your head
because I am trying to calm down the
patient at the same time trying to
visually remember what the flowchart
looks like and how I'm [music] supposed
to assign them.
>> Ma'am, you have lots of cuts. We need to
take care of cuts. Yeah. On your
forehead.
>> Cuts.
>> These are humans, so they're going to
give you imperfect answers at times. So,
when you're trying to evaluate someone's
mental status, you say, "Give me a
thumbs up." They don't give you a thumbs
up. You can miscategorize them.
>> Hi. Um, what are you working with here?
Okay. Can you hear my voice? Their guts
are coming out of their mouth.
>> Yeah. Yeah. That not important.
>> Okay. What's important?
>> They can't walk. Okay. I'm going to put
a red on this.
>> Okay. Based on what? What do you mean?
>> Based on short of breath. What are we
getting breaths wise here? He's
breathing really slow. Actually,
>> he is breathing really slow.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. So, you're going red. Okay.
>> Okay. I'm just
>> That's okay.
>> Patriage isn't my only responsibility.
It is also my job to perform procedures
on the [music] patients that are most
high-risisk that I categorized as red.
>> When you're in front of the hospital,
you're triaging. When you're inside the
hospital, you're treating.
>> So, this guy's done an evvisceration.
[music] He's full-blown on oxygen. Still
able to wake up a little bit. Sir, are
you still with us?
>> What do you think of the vitals so far
here? His heart rate is somewhat
elevated.
>> Yes, it's tacoc cardic. But what is the
issue right here?
>> We need to cover and address the room
and call surgery immedately.
>> So, we're going to take a look at a
patient that has an evisceration. And an
evisceration happens when you cut to
your abdominal wall and some of your
bowel comes out. Yeah. So,
>> it's a really bad day.
>> It is a bad day.
>> You do not want to ever push the
abdominal contents back in cuz forcing
them back in is actually not the correct
move. So, this patient is going to have
to go to the O and see a surgeon to get
it put back in. But what you're going to
do is you're going to try to preserve
the bowel.
>> All of the medical professionals in this
simulation are actual doctors and nurses
who have been instructed to carry out my
commands. [music]
Even if I'm wrong,
>> what you want to get first is a big
trauma dress. This is sterile saline.
And you're just going to pour some in
there.
Now go ahead and pull it out and cover
the bowel [music] with that.
>> We are just going to cover the wound for
now and prepare you to go into surgery.
>> And now this is like an olusive type
dressing that's going to help keep that
moisture in so we can [music]
>> has a very strong smell.
>> Yeah, there we go. Let's put one there.
>> We now want you to grab that roll of
tape.
>> Perfect. [music]
>> Okay.
>> Yeah, there you go.
>> Thank you for the assist.
>> Okay. Okay. Hey, do we call the O? Can
we call him?
>> Yep, I'll call the O.
>> Okay, we'll get the O prepped. Okay,
we'll move on right away.
>> How are we doing in here? We We're done
here. The real Dr. K is actually not me.
It is my dad. Growing up, I was actually
on a course to become a physician just
like my dad. Instead, I became a
YouTuber. So, doing this episode is my
one opportunity to hopefully make him
proud. Also, my dad says to subscribe.
[music] So, doctor's orders, you better
subscribe.
The biggest issue that I'm seeing in
Michelle right now is that she's making
mistakes triaging patients.
>> Sir, can you hear my voice?
>> Yes.
>> Okay, Brad.
>> I'm starting to see emotions creep up.
Panic set in. She's freezing.
>> Can you walk towards my voice? Can you
walk on his own?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Okay. Okay. Okay. That's a green.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. He has a chest injury.
>> You see that?
>> Okay. Chest injury. Um, he's walking but
he's not walking by himself.
>> Does anyone know what they're red? Okay.
I'm just going to do red on that. Once
you miscatategorize a patient, you're
starting to give resources to that
patient they didn't need, you could be
losing resources for people who [music]
can be help. This is the domino effect
that if you make a mistake early, it can
cause you a lot of harm down the line.
>> Hey, hey, can we get some help?
>> Walk towards my voice.
>> My wife cannot walk.
>> Okay. Okay, they can walk. So, they're
both
>> somebody over here, please.
>> Okay. Where?
>> Okay. Um, my name is Dr. K and we're
going to treat you inside. Keep going
inside. After I assign a color to each
patient, they will be put into a room
based on [music] that color. Now, each
of these rooms have limited beds, staff,
and resources. And the problem is if you
miscatategorize someone, it creates a
chain reaction of problems in the
future. For example, [music] if a
patient is overcatategorized, green,
red, green, red, idiot,
>> that patient will end up taking
resources from someone who needs them
more. And a patient who is
undercatategorized will ultimately not
receive the resources they need and thus
be at risk of death. So this is kind of
like a resource allocation challenge.
>> It it sure is.
>> Okay. How do you feel?
>> That was so overwhelming.
>> Remember you have secondary triage
always after the fact.
>> Okay. I'm going to be more confident.
Okay.
>> While mistakes are bound to happen cuz
patients are going to be changing their
severity level. Usually [music] that
severity only gets worse. That's why
there's always a consideration made for
secondary triage where we can adjust for
that and catch those mistakes early.
>> We're just sort of wondering when we can
be seen.
>> Get her on some vitals.
See if any of those guys down there
might
>> went inside. Try not to run. Very easy
with sharps to get hurt.
>> Remember, take care of yourself first.
All right. Sorry.
>> Vomiting with head trauma. Can you tell
me [music] what happened?
>> Something fell like a beam.
>> ABC. You have patience. I'm going to
teach you this like this basic trauma
assessment. It's called the primary
assessment. So, first thing you want to
know is just do I have an airway. So,
that's a
>> airway clear. I'm going to check
breathing.
>> The next one is B. It's breathing. Now,
we're seeing if they're breathing is
effective.
>> Breathing is okay. You hear good breath
sounds on both sides?
>> Yeah. I mean,
>> do you want me to double check?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And then after that, we're going to move
to circulation. There's two big things
you want to know about circulation. One,
you want to know if they have a pulse.
Then the second thing we're going to
check is we're going to look for any
major bleeds. Good. So, now we've done
airway, breathing, circulation. Most of
our problems are going to happen in
those three areas, and we'll have to
address them to save that person's life.
>> Is there a reason why you classified her
as red?
>> We could secondary triage her and change
her.
>> We need to move her down to yellow. We
only have so many beds.
>> Yeah.
>> So, I just wasted two gurnies.
>> Yep. Make more room. If you put [snorts]
someone into the red zone where they
should be in the yellow zone, just
switching them could cause people to
lose their lives. you're using staff to
mobilize those patients and that can be
really difficult.
>> Can be this female right here. So, she's
been complaining of blindness in her
left eye and some pain
>> and I just have a lot of pain and also
my my right ankle I can't
>> she cannot walk. She's she's blind in
one of her eyes. She's got glass
sticking out of it.
>> I think it's really starting to kick in
like is this going to be a [music] like
forever thing? Am I not ever going to be
able to see out of my eye? I'm just
freaking out a little bit.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I understand.
>> Can we get some care? Like,
>> so right now, are you okay if I just put
an IV in here and give her some pain
medication, some of morphine again?
>> Yeah. Okay, great. I will make and it'll
help with the pain. Okay.
>> It's going to be
>> I try not to lie to patients, right? I
don't say you're going to be okay. But I
do try to I think reassurance is very
important during this stuff.
>> It's going to be it's uh we're doing the
best we can.
>> Okay. Thank you so much.
>> Okay. This gentleman here has some
abdominal trauma. He had a problem.
>> I'm fine. Just find my okay. I need pain
medications and a CT scan. Okay, that
sound good. I agree with that.
>> 4 milligram sounds good. We're just
waiting.
>> What are you doing here?
>> Nothing.
>> Literally nothing.
[panting and gasps]
>> Katon Everett.
>> He was the lead in the construction
site. He's concerned about his men.
Okay. Uh we'll just give him something
for the anxiety
>> for anxiety.
Why did
>> you order for pain?
>> 4 millig morphine. Okay. I'm fine.
>> Is he allergic to morphine?
>> Are you allergic to morphine? No, I'm
>> Did I? That's I I think we need to
prioritize other patients. Then we can
do it.
>> Oh my god. Okay.
>> Okay. What are you doing? What are you
doing? Ask questions. Ask questions.
She's unresponsive. If you need to
manage your airway on on the EMS
journey, feel free to do it.
>> You want to listen? You want to listen
first?
>> Yeah.
>> Listen. Get some vitals. So, there's a
lot [music] of things that can be
happening that are disruptive that you
can't even plan for. Being pulled in one
direction, then another direction is
really difficult. How much should they
be squeezing?
>> Okay.
>> Every every six seconds, right?
>> Okay. And then we should prep an IV for
intubation [music] so that we can give
her medication so we can intubate.
>> Okay. I'll get an IV started. Okay.
We're going to work on intubation. And
that's where we're [music] going to
secure somebody's airway. We would have
to put a tube down their throat to help
them maintain their airway. But the
other thing it could be used for is
breathing, too. Cuz if somebody's not
breathing, we could breathe for them.
Your vital signs are coming up. Her sats
are terrible.
>> Okay. Can I get IV quickly?
>> Non-dominant hands. There we go. Cuz you
want to control the tube with your
dominant hand. And this has to be in a
place that you can see it, not where the
nurses can see it.
>> I am ready. Yes.
>> Okay. 120 sucks in.
>> Okay.
>> You have your monitor. What are you
looking for? What do you see? [music]
>> I'm looking for the epiglatus.
>> And then just slide that in there. Nice.
You see that's the epiglot. There you
try to hit in the middle of the
epiglatus. Back up.
>> Oh, her teeth.
>> Oh,
>> I just broke someone's tooth.
>> Mal practice.
>> Okay. Oh my god.
>> And you're going to take that
>> and then this is the twisting thing once
it's in the neck.
>> Twist it. There you go. Push it just a
little bit further.
Boom. Okay. Good. Now then pop this out
your thumb [music]
>> out towards the stomach. Out towards the
stomach. Out.
>> Then bring it forward. Grab it with your
other hand.
>> Yes.
>> Good. So then I will come up here and
bagging it means assist ventilations.
>> Attach. Put on your stethoscope. Put on
your stethoscope quick. [music] Check
the stomach first.
>> Okay. It's not on the stomach.
>> Okay. Chest rise is present.
>> Good. On the right.
>> O2 sets coming up to 94.
>> Okay, that's good.
>> Okay. Do you want them to secure the
tube?
>> Yes, secure the tube.
>> She's stable. What do you want to do?
>> Ah, now we need to push uh 50 micrograms
fentanyl, 2 millig,
and a propal drip, please.
>> Okay.
>> Can someone repeat that back to me?
>> Okay. 50 of fentanyl, uh, two of propal
drip.
>> Yes. [music] Thank you. Okay. During an
earthquake, you're having all sorts of
scenarios happen at the same time. But
then you're also having really
surprising incidents, seeing a young
child, someone you feel bad for.
>> Hi, can you hear me? Can you come
towards me? Okay, she's able to move.
>> Let's see if she can walk.
>> I can't walk. You can't walk. Um, let me
feel her pulse.
>> Let me see your wrist.
>> Does that hurt?
>> Okay. You got multiple patients.
>> Got it.
>> There's lots of different people
speaking lots of different languages.
Sophia
loi
uh
she doesn't know where she is.
>> What do you think about that
>> fracture? Uh but she can breathe. She
has a pulse. I think it's yellow. I
think it's yellow.
>> Okay, fair. Tell your staff. Tell your
staff. [music] And that's why during an
MCI like this, you have to be prepared
for absolutely anything.
My water broke about 20 minutes ago.
>> Okay, Michelle,
>> can we get a stretcher for her? Her
water just broke.
>> Michelle, there's two people.
>> We're still going to have patients that
are coming to the hospital for other
things that were not related to this
specific incident.
>> We should still triage them because
we're overflow.
>> Correct. It's for [music] everyone
because it is balancing the resources
that are available for everyone with the
number of people that are coming in.
>> Hi, can you talk to me?
>> Yes.
>> Tell me what your name is.
>> Genevie Frink.
>> Okay. What's going on?
>> Uh, my water broke 20 minutes ago.
>> 20 minutes ago. Oh, are you having
contractions right now?
>> Yeah, I started this morning. How far
apart are they?
>> 2 minutes.
>> 2 minutes. Okay. Yeah, let's proceed
with green.
>> Lady's like going to deliver a baby, I
think.
>> Do we have room?
>> I've called. You want to put her in a
room called
>> and any response?
>> No, we need to escalate.
>> Why did you change to red?
>> Because she's about to deliver a baby.
>> Okay,
>> that's not on the algorithm. I don't
know what to do about that. So, this
patient is about to give birth, but
because of all of the mistakes [music]
I've made over categorizing people, all
of the operating rooms are now full.
>> See, her contractions are getting closer
and closer. Like, if she starts to
deliver, I told her we're going to have
to cut her pants off. I just We're out
in the open. So,
>> meaning I now need to perform a
procedure on one of the red tagged
[music] patients so that I can create
space.
>> Okay. the scene.
>> I got another coworker. I still haven't
been told what's going on with him.
>> This is not going well. I'm worried
about her. She's her airway's closing
up. Her need to get to the airway. We
need to do rapid incubation.
>> Yeah. I mean, we could try a lot of
swelling
>> and she's like,
>> can we go through a cry?
>> I would. That would that would make
sense.
>> Then we need to prepare for a cry.
>> Okay. Okay. We're waiting for you. When
you're ready, he's ready. You ready?
>> Great. Great. Great. I need the scalpel.
There you go.
>> Yes. Uh, right now I am going to be
feeling for the thyroid cartilage. Good.
>> And I'm going to make the vertical
incision between thyroid cartilage and
the cryo ring. Okay. I'm cutting due
[music] to skin now.
>> Okay.
>> It just seems like after the pain
medicine, she started to feel really
dizzy.
>> Sorry, my dear. We're going to get her
into the yellow. We need to work on her
lying down.
>> I think this is right.
>> How far are you going to push this in?
Just a few inches so that we don't go
down into the lines.
>> Correct.
>> Is that the direction?
>> Thank you.
>> Can someone Can somebody pay attention
[music] to me, please, for for a moment?
>> Hey, you're last in line, bro.
>> Dude, I got here before you.
>> I don't care. He can't feel his legs.
>> He can't see.
>> Hey, can we uh prepare the syringe so I
so I can inflate it?
>> Tube up on the tube.
>> No.
>> Can we just have you sit down now?
>> Now this comes out. Now this comes out.
Now this comes out. and switch the CO2
onto that
>> and I promise I will call them and we'll
make sure that you will call them
>> and they have not been called.
>> The longer that I speak to you, I can't
get on the can you take a seat and I
will call.
>> How have you not called when we we
talked about like 20 minutes ago?
>> Yo, dude. Dude, dude, get back in.
>> Oh my god. [laughter]
>> The baby's coming.
>> Get back in bed. So, hey, what's going
on here? Get back in bed. Hey, real
quick. I got
>> Okay, gold is good. Let me listen to see
if it's working.
>> Okay, what are you listening for? I'm
listening to make sure that it's both
lungs and not just one.
>> Wait a minute. I know you. I know.
>> Okay, my dear. This is an emergency.
>> Repeat back.
>> I think I think it's working.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Do you feel good?
>> Uh, yeah. I'll I'll check it out.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. So, I see.
>> Hey, can we get the OB kit? We have got
to get her jeans off cuz that baby's
gonna
>> Yeah, I think she's gonna deliver any
second. What do you think? Should we cut
our jeans off?
>> Where's my doctor?
>> Get the scissors. All right, come on.
>> Okay. Okay. Um, we did a video on how to
deliver a baby 2 years ago, but that was
2 years ago. I don't remember anything
on how to do this. Um,
>> do your best. Open the kit. Start the
process. Ma'am, Dr. Cari's here. She's
going to do a great job. Oh,
>> my back hurts so bad. She's going to cut
your jeans. Okay. Set this up. Set this
up.
>> I uh This is This is crazy. This is
actually crazy. So, we should cut her
clothes off.
>> Yes. Hey, listen real quick. Obie just
called. They are upstairs. The doc said
he much rather deliver this baby
upstairs.
>> I would much rather that, too.
>> Are you okay? Is she stable enough for
that or do you want to deliver here?
>> I think she's got to go.
>> Yeah. The doc says it's much better
upstairs for this.
>> Tell the patient. Tell the We're headed
up now. Give us 5 minutes. We'll be
there in 5 minutes. Okay. Okay. Thanks.
>> Oh, thank God.
>> Easy breaths. Easy breaths. You're doing
well.
>> But the chaos still isn't over. While I
was treating my patients, my staff was
triaging even more patients who are now
flooding into the hospital.
>> Mom. Mom.
>> This is mom.
>> Hey, mom.
>> What's mom's name? It's Ruth.
>> Hi, Ruth.
>> It's Jackie. Hey. The hospital is
quickly approaching critical mass
[music] with every room at full
capacity.
>> My wife goes blind and sue you guys.
Like I I I don't know what to tell you.
>> You're the most important. We pay you
four times longer.
>> I just checked in on this. We You're
still in line.
>> What position? When when How do I know
if we're moving closer or farther? And
all these people are coming. We just get
bumped down again and again. My wife's
going to go
>> blind. I just checked. Michelle,
>> this patient doesn't look good. Do you
want to check vitals?
>> That's the best you could do.
>> It's the best we can do. There are tons
of people here.
>> Yeah, I I see that. We've been here
longer than all of them.
>> I think what's really difficult to
grapple [music] with is that on a normal
day in the emergency room, many of these
debilitating injuries could be resolved.
But because it is a mass casualty
[music] incident, you have to pick and
choose and ultimately try to save the
most number of lives possible. This
means making really difficult decisions
like choosing to allow a patient to go
blind because those resources need to be
used to save the life of someone else.
This is a patient that I
miscatategorize. Maybe she could have
gotten treatment sooner if I hadn't
messed that up.
>> I'm leaving. [music]
>> I have scratches on my legs and I have a
dog that's lost.
>> These are all her current vitals. She
got 2 millig of morphine and she has an
ID in place. Meaning
still looking for a child. Yeah. Did we
call
>> What about the young child that came in
earlier? Could that be her child?
>> Michelle, please.
>> Michelle, they want a CT scan.
>> Ma'am, it's very easy to freeze, to feel
overwhelmed.
And I'm worried about Michelle feeling
that emotion in the midst of all of the
drama that's ongoing. Patients
screaming, family members [music]
getting angry about time. Hello.
>> I didn't close it. Sir, if you continue
to raise your voice, I'm going to have
to ask you to leave. Please, please,
please [music] cooperate with
>> Come on. Squeeze, squeeze, squeeze,
squeeze.
>> You need to be able to snap yourself out
of it quickly in order to respond to the
call. That is your patience.
>> Can you talk to us?
>> Start a baby.
>> Can you wake up?
>> Can we just move him down a couple more
inches? Get her out and then we can
>> I want to take a look at her. You called
him Red, but he's agonally breathing. He
hasn't been responsive since you've seen
him. Then I think we have to move into
black.
>> Okay. Make make choices. Make choices.
>> Due to my mistakes, every red room is
completely full. There was a chance that
if I had been more efficient with my
resource allocation, there would have
been space available and we could have
saved this patient, but I didn't. And so
[music] I have to make a really
difficult choice to give him a black
tag.
Having to be so objective about black
tag is horrible, [music] especially in a
situation where if it wasn't an MCI, we
could have done chest compressions to
try and save them.
But to like actively have to say we have
to walk away from this person, that's so
hard.
>> So, we will have to get the name, which
I'll go get with the ENTs just for the
toe tag.
I feel so overloaded with stimuli
[music] and decision-m fatigue that I
feel like I just need to sit in a quiet
room [music] and look at a wall for
[laughter] for a few hours.
>> Yeah.
>> [music]
[music]
>> I have no good news for anyone and like
emotionally not being able to provide
closure is very [music] difficult for me
and in in general Brett.
>> Yes.
>> The the [music] black tag patient that
came in.
>> Yeah.
>> Was he at the construction site with the
other two?
>> They they are they that is part of the
construction crew
>> with HIPPA. Are we [music] allowed to
tell them? Just making sure call on
this.
[music]
>> Sir, can you hear my voice?
>> They did recover Brunson. He came to the
hospital, but when he arrived, he was
unresponsive.
He's unfortunately passed.
I just wanted to tell you
cuz you were asking about him.
Oh,
>> thank you.
>> I'm I'm very sorry to tell you this
news.
What we're going to experience and show
the general public with this MCI is
happening at scale with our healthcare
system. We are facing a tremendous
shortage, stress, difficulties trying to
give them care with limited resources.
So if you don't want this MCI style of
health care, we need to make changes.
And I'm hoping that it starts with being
kind to healthcare frontline workers,
being gracious when you're going in and
understanding that they too are humans
first and are under tremendous amount of
stress. Second, understanding how
beautiful and limited life is. That it
can be pulled away from you at any
[music] moment and you need to be
grateful for it.
>> You ready for your grade? [laughter]
>> Okay. If we had to break up the
categories for which we grade Michelle,
if we start [music] with triage, so
we're going to have to give her an F on
that one because there were times where
she was a bit panicked. [music] She was
starting to get caught up. Treatment,
I'll give her a B minus. She didn't know
exactly what to do in a lot of the
[music] scenarios, not surprisingly so.
But then where she really was shining is
in communication. Just being able to
work with your team and to move people
around and to prioritize and to keep
checking in. That is really what would
save lives in a situation [music] like
this.
>> For a human being to have to be the
decision maker. [music] Even just today
having like the microscopic taste of
what that means and what that [music]
feels like. I have infinite love and
admiration for anyone who does this
confession. Most people at any [music]
given moment are not sick. But I can say
with 100% certainty there will be a
moment where they will be sick, where
they need care. Think about habits that
you can change in your life that you can
improve your health to perhaps have a
better quality of life for longer.
>> This [music] episode is dedicated to
health care professionals everywhere who
save lives every single day in real
life. If you enjoy this episode, please
consider [music] subscribing. And you
can check out this other episode I did
where I worked a real 24-hour paramedic
[music] shift in a real ambulance. If
you enjoyed this episode, I think you're
going to love that one. Till then, I'll
see you in the next challenge.